+++
date = "2018-02-28T16:05:00-05:00"
description = ""
draft = false
lastmod = "2018-02-28T16:05:00-05:00"
tags = []
title = "A New Home for Josie"

+++

{{< figure src="/img/2018/2017-Roll-041_29-Josie.jpg"  title="Josie (2017)" >}}

It's breaking my heart, but I decided I needed to find a new home for Josie.

I adopted Josie last spring from the Humane Society in Grand Rapids. I knew the
minute we met that I wanted to bring her home, so I did. And I fell in love.

She is sweet, funny, playful, and affectionate. She doesn't chew things she's
not supposed to. She doesn't bark. She doesn't poop in the house. She curls up
next to me on the couch. She loves car rides and chewies and sticks.

Josie is 99% perfect, but she simply can't be around other dogs.

I'd never met a dog that just never figured out how to get along with other
dogs, so I just assumed I'd figure things out. It's not that I didn't work at
it. I worked at it. I spent thousands of dollars on training and consulting. I
brought her to "finishing" school, where she did pretty well in groups. This was
encouraging, but whenever she was one on one with another dog she just couldn't
control herself. And even with all the training, I had trouble controlling her.

I don't give up easily on dogs. I've had dogs that needed to be carried around
in order to pee or get up stairs. I had dogs needing multiple surgeries and
long, expensive, recovery periods. I've had dogs that couldn't control their
bladders and would just pee everywhere all the time. I never once considered
getting rid of them.

My life involves dogs. Everyone I know has dogs. My girlfriend has two small
dogs. None of us can ever be in the same place when Josie is with me. I worry
that someone's dog is going to get hurt. After nearly a year of working at it, I
didn't know what I could do to resolve all this.

So, a couple weeks ago I contacted one of Josie's trainers and asked for advice.
It turns out that his sister had recently lost a dog, lived alone with no other
pets, and was interested in meeting her. She took Josie home for a week to see
how they got along. She (of course) fell in love immediately and expressed an
interest in keeping Josie. I said yes.

I'm told by people who know this woman that Josie will be well cared for and
probably spoiled a little. I'm ok with that.

Part of the reason I'm writing this is to convince myself that I shouldn't hate
myself for failing her. Adopting a dog isn't something to be taken lightly with
just an easy "never mind" if things get inconvenient. I hope that's not what
I've done. I don't think I gave up too easily. I think I've done the right
thing, but damn it hurts.

Josie will be fine. Considering the easy access she'll have to professional dog
people, I expect her to be happy and to thrive.

Still, I miss her terribly.

{{< figure src="/img/2018/2017-Roll-032_18_Josie-in-car.jpg"  title="" >}}
