---
date: "2018-03-01T07:30:06-05:00"
description: ""
lastmod: "2018-03-01T07:30:06-05:00"
tags:
- photography
- Adobe
title: Back to Lightroom...for now
---

{{< figure src="/img/2018/lightroom-classic-2007.jpg"  title="Photo: Petapixel.com" >}}

I keep trying to move my photo processing and library workflow out of Lightroom,
and I keep failing. This post is just me thinking it through (again).

First, why would I want to do that? Good question. It's popular to hate on
Adobe, and some of this is justified, but sometimes it feels like bandwagoning.

For me, the urge to move away from Lightroom is mostly due to Subscription
Fatigue. I would love to not have to pay $10/month for the rest of my life
just to manage my photo library. It's not the price, as $10/month for the
photography package is a fine deal. It's just that it weighs on my mind, and
wouldn't it be nice to not think about it?

Here are the things I've tried.

**Apple Photos**

This is the quick and easy option. With iCloud Photo Library I can have everything
everywhere all the time. The editing features are pretty good and it can use
things like Luminar as an external editor. I don't have to import my iPhone
photos separately.

But, a requirement for me is that all of my photos must be kept in a set of
folders that I create and maintain. I don't mind so much if there's a "Library"
for metadata and edits and such, but I can't abide not having a "Show in Finder"
command available. I know I should just get with the program, but I'm a little
stuck in my ways here so Apple Photos is not yet the right thing for me.

**Photo Mechanic and an editor**

[Photo Mechanic](www.camerabits.com/) is by far the best way I've found to
ingest, caption, and keyword photos. It's super fast and is made for this. It
works directly with the Finder so my precious folder system remains intact.
There's no library at all - it's just a browser. Select an image, hit "E" and
the image opens in whatever editor I have configured. It does the right thing
with raw files. It can export/rename/upload to just about any service or format.

Photo Mechanic is the option I _want_ to use. It's simple, lightweight, fast and
flexible. But sometimes I want a library. I want to make collections or do some
fancy searching. I also kind of want to edit "in place" without sending files to
a separate editor and back. I may end up back here someday, but for now the
benefits don't outweigh the effort.

**Capture One**

I love [Capture
One](https://www.phaseone.com/en/Products/Software/Capture-One-Pro/Highlights.aspx),
and it's the most likely alternative. Earlier this year I tried going all-in.
I've done this before, and it _almost_ stuck this time. Capture One does a great
job with Fuji Raw files. Although it's easy to be brainwashed by The Internet
into thinking that Capture One is great with Fuji and Lightroom sucks. I don't
find that to be true any more. Lightroom does fine, and Capture One is slightly
better.

The UI of Capture One takes a bit of getting used to, but it's very customizable
and quite nice once I got settled in.

It just doesn't have the export options or plugins or ecosystem of Lightroom.
I've tweaked my process in Lightroom over the years to the point where I can
crank through image processing, filing, exporting, and sharing without thinking
much about it. With Capture One it feels like I'm always swimming upstream. That
would eventually pass, but why bother? Capture One costs pretty much the same as
Lightroom if I pay for the upgrades each year or so.

**Lightroom CC**

I _really_ wanted to like the new Lightroom CC, but I didn't. I'll keep an eye on it but at
this point it feels like an Apple Photos workalike with the overhead of the
Adobe subscription. Also, no "Show in Finder" command which I still can't get
past. It's certainly one to watch.

**Luminar**

[Luminar](https://skylum.com/luminar) is a very cool new photo editor. There's
no library yet, and it's a bit slow on my machines. We'll see what happens when
they introduce the library features but I'm not ready to throw all my efforts
behind it yet.

**Lightroom CC Classic**

So here I am, back in Classic. For me, right now, the familiarity, ease,
flexibility, and power that Classic gives me is unmatched by any of the other
options. Even though I'm not always comfortable with Adobe, I'm comfortable with
Lightroom. I'm used to it. My fingers are hardwired for using it, and I get the
results I want quickly and easily.

There is a fear, probably justified, that Adobe will break their promise to keep
Classic around indefinitely the way they did with the downloadable version. I
worry about Adobe abandoning Classic, leaving me hanging.

But let's say they _do_ discontinue Classic in, say, three years. What's the
difference between being forced to move off Classic in three years and deciding
to move off it now, other than it would be on _my_ terms if I did it now? I
guess I could congratulate myself for ending one more subscription but is it
really worth it? Right now, for me, it's not.

And who knows, the new CC could become just as good or better than Classic. Or
one of the alternatives could be even better. Or something new could come along
and sweep me off my feet. 

Point is, I'm already invested in Lightroom so fighting to move to something
else _just in case_ seems like unnecessary effort, and for what? So I can be
free of one of the most useful subscriptions I pay for? So that _if_ it goes
away someday I'll be able to say "I told you so!" but only because by that time
I'll have forgotten the pain I'd already suffered through when switching?

Adobe may do things I don't love, and no, I don't completely trust them, but
right now they offer a darn good photo management and editing solution that I'm
comfortable with.

I'll try to remember all of this next time I get the sudden urge to move to
something else for one reason or another that day.


